United Nations Secretary General Antonio
gueras is speaking in New York let's
listen
in I have condemned unequivocally the
orfy and unprecedented 7 October acts of
Terror by amas in Israel nothing can
justify the deliberate killing injuring
and kidnapping of civilians or the
launching of rockets against civilian
targets end
quote indeed I spoke of the GRE es of
the Palestinian
people and in doing so I also clearly
stated and I quote that the Grievances
of the Palestinian people cannot justify
the appalling attacks by
amas it was necessary to set the record
straight especially out of
respect to the victims and to their
families thank you thank
you
you have just watched a 90 second speech
by the Secretary General of the United
Nations Antonio gueras now we admittedly
missed the first line I think missed the
first line or two but and and I say this
as I bring in M zi who just watched this
with us on set here in
Doha um it's I don't know how to
describe this as anything other than the
UN Secretary General justifying himself
and I assume it was justifying the
speech that he made yesterday we were
just talking about this weren't we
diplomacy at the UN and yesterday you
explained to us that he made waves when
he said what is happening right now what
um I beg your pardon the uh Hamas attack
did not happen in a vacuum that was his
quote the Hamas attack did not happen in
a vacuum end quote uh you were
explaining to us that the Israelis were
furious at this and we just saw the UN
Secretary
General essentially say this is what I
said this is why I said said it I think
he was he was
reminding um U the world and the
Israelis that he condemned what happened
in 7th of October actually pre to his
speech yesterday because and the first
hold on MAR I have the exact quote yes
because we tuned in 20 seconds late and
well not late but this was a two-minute
speech Yes the quote is gueras says that
it is false to say he was justifying
acts of Terror by Hamas it is false to
say he was justifying acts of Terror by
Hamas that is what he was accused of
doing by Israel yes because the the the
the political
bullying that he was
facing in the last 24 hours was
outraged he was bullied actually in the
last 24 hours by the Israelis putting
him in the corner saying that actually
look what you said is not acceptable
because you know you are not talking
about what happened in the 7th of
October I think his n 60 seconds is
trying to fix the record as he said
correctly by saying he condemned what
Hamas did he he's shocked by the Mis
interpretations of his statement to the
security Council on Tuesday um I think
he was also reacting to the call for his
resignation and to uh his statement I
think it was very clear message that you
know
this is what I said and this is also uh
what I believe in uh it was it was very
you know strong statement from him this
is really interesting I don't I don't
recall frankly uh un Secretary General
having having done anything quite like
this in this format under these
circumstances to come in to make a
statement to the world which is a
prepared statement that he had time to
you know he had time to calibrate his
language to yesterday I mean sorry I'm
using bued in buling he was buing
actually in the last 24 hours a lot in
the media especially from Israeli media
it was you know okay uh I think we'll
talk about this again M thanks for your
snap analysis on this